Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning | US EPA Skip to main content Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Replace a Lost Section 608 Technician Certification Card Learn more about how to replace a lost Section 608 technician certification card. EPA-Certified Refrigerant Reclaimers Learn more about where to return used refrigerant . Final Emissions Reduction and Reclamation Rule EPA publishes a&nbsp; final rulemaking to manage certain HFCs and their substitutes (10/11/2024). 1 2 3 Section 608&nbsp;( 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F ) of the Clean Air Act &nbsp;establishes the National Recycling and Emission Reduction Program. It prohibits individuals from intentionally venting ozone-depleting substances (ODS) refrigerants and their substitutes, such as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) while maintaining, servicing, repairing, or disposing of air conditioning or refrigeration equipment. What's New 2026 CAA Section 608 Reclaimer Registration and Reporting Webinar Slides (pdf) EPA publishes Final Emissions Reduction and Reclamation Rule&nbsp;(10/11/2024) Learn about tests and programs for certification. Learn About Certification Programs Learn about prohibitions, requirements, recordkeeping, and reporting. Explore Management Learn about recovering, recycling, reclamation of refrigerants and summary of reclamation trends. Explore Information Learn about disposal requirements and minimizing refrigerant emissions. Explore Disposal Learn more about purchasing, maintaining, and disposing of equipment if you own a business or home. Explore Equipment Learn about Section 608’s regulatory context and resources. Explore Resources Related Programs Managing HFCs and Substitutes under the AIM Act MVAC Servicing Ozone Layer Protection GreenChill Contact Us about Stationary Refrigeration and Air Conditioning to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem. Last updated on April 13, 2026