Regulatory Actions for Technology Transitions | US EPA Skip to main content Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Regulatory Actions for Technology Transitions Under subsection (i) of the American Innovation and Manufacturing (AIM) Act, EPA may restrict the use of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) by rule in a sector or subsector. Below are rulemakings related to the Technology Transitions Program. To stay informed on future rulemakings and notices, join the Technology Transitions Program contact list . Rules May 2026 – Reconsideration of Certain Regulatory Requirements Promulgated Under the Technology Transitions Provisions of the AIM Act&nbsp; This&nbsp;final&nbsp;rule&nbsp;addresses&nbsp;petitions for reconsideration and other requests from companies and trade associations across a number of subsectors, including refrigerated transport – intermodal containers, industrial process refrigeration and chillers used in semiconductor manufacturing, retail food refrigeration systems for remote condensing units and supermarkets, cold storage warehouses, certain refrigerated laboratory equipment,&nbsp;and&nbsp;residential and light commercial&nbsp;air&nbsp;conditioning and&nbsp;heat pump&nbsp;systems.&nbsp;&nbsp; Note: EPA&nbsp;Administrator, Lee&nbsp;Zeldin, signed the following&nbsp;final&nbsp;rule&nbsp;and&nbsp;EPA&nbsp;is submitting&nbsp;it for publication in&nbsp;the Federal&nbsp;Register (FR). While we have taken steps to ensure&nbsp;the accuracy&nbsp;of this Internet version of the rule, it is not the official version of the rule for purposes of public comment. Please refer to the official version in a forthcoming FR publication, which will appear on the Government Printing Office's website ( https://www.govinfo.gov ) and&nbsp;on Regulations.gov ( http://www.regulations.gov ) in&nbsp;Docket Number&nbsp;EPA-HQ-OAR-2025-0005. &nbsp; Technology Transitions Reconsideration Final Rule (pdf) (878.5 KB, 5/21/26) Additional Information &nbsp; Technology Transitions Reconsideration Rule Technical Fact Sheet (pdf) (213.92 KB, 5/21/26) Petitions for Reconsideration Economic and Environmental Impacts Memo (pdf) (1.38 MB, 5/21/26) May Refrigerant Announcement Factsheet (pdf) (156.02 KB, 5/21/26) Enforcement Statement EPA issued the following enforcement statement on December 22, 2025: EPA is aware of the circumstances and equities created by the Agency’s decision to reconsider the 2023 Technology Transitions Rule through the rulemaking process. While EPA intends to extend the compliance dates through this reconsideration, known as the “TT Rule Reconsideration,” the current deadlines remain effective until modified through this rulemaking. Enforcement of the current deadlines subject to the TT Rule Reconsideration is a low enforcement priority for the Agency and EPA intends to focus its resources on compliance with the new compliance dates that will be established by this rulemaking. However, EPA may take any action necessary to protect human health and the environment. Consistent with the March 12, 2025, memo entitled “Implementing National Enforcement and Compliance Initiatives Consistently with Executive Orders and Agency Priorities,” concurrence from the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance (OECA) or his/her delegee shall be sought before any enforcement or compliance assurance actions regarding the requirements of this rule under reconsideration are taken. This memo can be found on EPA’s Enforcement Home Page . In addition, EPA issued the following: Extension of the EPA’s January 17, 2025 NAA for New Refrigerated Transport-Intermodal Containers Designed to Operate at Temperatures Between -50 °Celsius and -35 °Celsius (pdf) (243 KB) No Action Assurance Regarding the Prohibition for the Manufacture, Import, and Installation of Certain Products Used in the Manufacture of Semiconductors that Use Hydrofluorocarbons (pdf) (261.71 KB) December 2024 - Technology Transitions Restrictions on the Use of HFCs in the Variable Refrigerant Flow Air Conditioning Subsector This final rule is in response to the concern raised by stakeholders that the January 1, 2026, installation date for new lower-GWP HFC variable refrigerant flow (VRF) systems may strand equipment. This rule allows for higher-GWP HFC equipment manufactured or imported prior to January 1, 2026, to be installed until January 1, 2027. The final rule also allows until January 1, 2028, for the installation of such VRF equipment that are intended for construction projects that were issued an approved building permit prior to October 5, 2023.&nbsp; Final rule materials (December 2024) Federal Register Link to the Final Rule Frequent Questions on the Phasedown of HFCs Proposed rule materials (June 2024) Federal Register Link to the Proposed VRF Rule &nbsp; Federal Register Link to the Notification of Comment Period Extension (August 2024) The EPA reopened the comment period for this rule specifically to provide an opportunity to request a public hearing on this rulemaking. The EPA held a public hearing on August 27, 2024. A transcript of the hearing can be found in the docket for this rulemaking. December 2023 - Technology Transitions Restrictions on the Use of Certain HFCs in the Residential and Light Commercial Air Conditioning and Heat Pump Subsector This interim final rule narrowly amends a provision of the Technology Transitions regulations published on October 24, 2023 (88 FR 73098). This rule addresses the concern raised by stakeholders that the January 1, 2025, compliance date for installing lower-GWP HFC residential air conditioning and heat pump systems may strand inventory of&nbsp; equipment, particularly equipment that was intended for new residential construction. This rule allows for inventory of higher-GWP HFC equipment manufactured or imported before January 1, 2025, to be installed until January 1, 2026. This rulemaking also clarifies that residential ice makers are not included in the household refrigerator and freezer subsector and are not subject to the restrictions for that subsector. EPA finds there is good cause for this rule to take effect without prior notice and comment. Unlike a direct final rule, EPA will not withdraw this interim final rule if it receives adverse comment; all comments will be addressed in a subsequent final rule. Interim final rule materials (December 2023) Federal Register Link to the Technology Transitions Interim Final Rule Frequent Questions on the Phasedown of HFCs October 2023 - Technology Transitions Restrictions on the Use of Certain HFCs under Subsection (i) of the AIM Act This final rule restricts the use of HFCs in specific sectors or subsectors, establishes a process for submitting technology transitions petitions, establishes recordkeeping and reporting requirements, and addresses certain other elements related to the effective implementation of the AIM Act. These restrictions address petitions granted on October 7, 2021, and September 19, 2022. Restrictions apply to the use of certain high global warming potential (GWP) HFCs in aerosols, foams, and refrigeration, air conditioning, and heat pump products and equipment. Beginning January 1, 2025, certain technologies will need to restrict use of higher-GWP HFCs or HFC blends. Prohibitions apply to the manufacture, distribution, sale, installation, import, and export of products containing restricted HFCs. Compliance deadlines and GWP limits vary based on sector and subsector. Final rule materials (October 2023) Technology Transitions Final Rule &nbsp; Final Rule Fact Sheet &nbsp;(pdf) (946 KB) Final Rule Media Release Frequent Questions on the Phasedown of HFCs HFC Restrictions by Sector Regulatory Impact Assessment (pdf) (4 MB) Proposed rule materials (December 2022) Federal Register Link to the Proposed Technology Transitions Rule Proposed Rule Media Release EPA received requests to reconsider specific provisions of the final Technology Transitions Rule. To view these petitions and EPA response, please visit the page on&nbsp; petitions for reconsideration . Notices There are different types of notices, including Notices of Data Availability (NODA) and Notices of Determination. Notices alert stakeholders and the public of decisions made by EPA under subsection (i) of the AIM Act. Notices of Data Availability NODAs alert stakeholders of new information related to subsection (i) of the AIM Act of 2020. Notices of Determination Notices of Determination alert the public of the Agency’s decision and consideration of negotiated rulemaking to grant, partially grant, or deny petitions under subsection (i) of the AIM Act of 2020.&nbsp; Reducing HFCs Open Sidenav Menu Close Sidenav Menu Contact Us About Reducing HFCs Contact Us About Reducing HFCs to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem. Last updated on May 21, 2026